---
layout: post
title: AWS 101 - Identity Access Management - Draft
---

AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) is a web service that helps you securely control access to AWS resources. You use IAM to control who is authenticated (signed in) and authorized (has permissions) to use resources.

IAM allows to manage users and AWS Console by:

- centralize control, 
- shared access, 
- grant permissions, 
- identity federation (including Active Directory, Facebook, Linkedin etc.)
- multifactor authentication,
- temporaty access for users,
- own password rotation policy, 
- integration with many different AWS services, 
- supports PCI DSS compliance.

#### CRITICAL TERMS

**USERS** - END USERS (People)

**GROUPS** - a collections of users under one set of permissions e.g. marketing team, sysadmins.

**ROLES** - roles are assigned to **AWS RESOURCES** e.g. EC2 instant has access to Bucket

**POLICIES** - a document that defines one (or more) permissions. Can be attached either to group, user or role.

#### IAM SUMMARY

- IAM is universal - it does not apply to regions at this time, 
- the root account is simply the account created when first setup yout AWS account. It has complete admin access, 
- we should not use admin account for day-to-day access. We should create users and grant them roles,
- new users have NO permissions when first created. We have to explicitly add the permissions they need to,
- new users are assigned Access Key ID and Secret Access Key. These are not the same as password and you cannot use them to access the AWS Management Console. Access Key ID adn Secret Access Key are used to access AWS via APIs and command line.
- you only get to view Access Key ID and Secret Access Key once. If you lose them you have to regenerate them.
- always set up multifactor authentication,
- create and customize your own password policy.

#### ROLES SUMMARY

- Rolles allow you not use Access Key ID's and Secret Access Keys
- Roles are preffered from security perspective. **ALWAYS use roles!**
- Roles are controlled by policies
- you can change a policy on role and it will take immediate affect
- you can attach and detach roles to running EC2 instances without having stop or terminate these instances

If secret keys were used on EC2 instance it is necessary to remove config and credentials from ~/.aws.

------------
*Notes based mainly on Cloud Guru Course - [AWS Certified Developer](https://acloud.guru/learn/aws-certified-developer-associate-june-2018) and [AWS Whitepapers](https://aws.amazon.com/whitepapers/
).*
