---
layout: post
title: AWS 101 - EC2
---

Amazon Elastic Cloud (Amazon EC2) is a web service that provides resizable compute capacity in the cloud. Amazon EC2 reduces the time required to obtain and boot new server instances to minutes, allowing you to quickly scale capacity, both up and down, as your computing requirements change. 
It is just a virtual machine in the cloud.

Amazon EC2 changes the economics of computing by allowing you to pay only for capacity that you actually use. Amazon EC2 provides developers the tools to build failure resilient applications and isolate themselves from common failure scenarios.  

EC2 OPTIONS

- On Demand - allows you to pay a fixed rate by the hour (or by the second) with no commitment. Windows instances are generally by the hours whereas Linux instances by the second. It is expected to change very soon. 

- Reserved - provides you with a capacity reservation, and offer a significant discount on the hourly charge for an instance. It based on a 1 or 3 years contract. If you pay up front it usually gives significant discount.   

- Spot - enables you to bid whatever price you want for instance capacity, providing for even greater savings if your applications have flexible start and end times. It works basically as a stock market.

- Dedicated Hosts - Physical EC2 server dedicated for your use. Dedicated Hosts can help you reduce costs by allowing you to use your existing server-bound software licenses eg. SQL Server or Oracle. 


ON DEMAND Instances

- Perfect for users that want the low cost and flexibility of Amazon EC2 without any up-front payment or long-term commitment.
- Application with short term (big data analysis, test environments), spiky, or unpredictable workloads that cannot be interrupted.
- applications being developed or tested on Amazon EC2 for the first time. 

RESERVED Instances

*[Amazon Overview - Amazon EC2 Reserved Instances](https://aws.amazon.com/ec2/pricing/reserved-instances)*

- Application with steady state or predictable usage.
- Applications that require reserved capacity
- Users can make up-front payment to reduce their total computing costs even further

SPOT Instances 

*[Amazon Overview - Amazon EC2 Spot Instances](https://aws.amazon.com/ec2/spot)*

- Applications that have flexible start and end times,
- Applications that are only feasible at very low compute prices e.g. companies which need to perform a huge amounts of computing and can do it at 4 am on Sunday to save money,
- Users with an urgent need for large amounts of additional computing capacity.

If a Spot instance is terminated by Amazon EC2, you will not be charged for a partial hour of usage. However, if you terminate the instance yourself, you will be charged for the complete hour in which the instance ran. 

DEDICATED Hosts

*[Amazon Overview - Amazon EC2 Dedicated Hosts](https://aws.amazon.com/ec2/dedicated-hosts/)*

- useful for regulatory requirements that may not support multitenant virtualization, 
- great for licensing which does not support multi-tenancy or cloud deployments, 
- can be purchased On-Demand (hourly)
- can be purchased as a Reservation for up to 70% off the On-Demand price

EC2 INSTANCE TYPES

F1 - Field Programmable Gate Array
I3 - High Speed Storage (IOPS)
G3 - Graphics Intensive
H1 - High Disk Throughput
T2 - Lowest Cost, general purpose (T2 micro)
D2 - Dense Storage
R4 - Memory Optimized (RAM)
M5 - General Purpose (main choice for general purpose apps)
C5 - Compute optimized 
P3 - Graphics/ General Purpose GPU (Pics)
X1 - Memory Optimized (X-Extreme Memory)

EBS - Elastic Block Store

Amazon EBS allows you to create storage volumes and attach them to Amazon EC2 instances. Once attached, you can create a file system on top of these volumes, run a database, or use them in any other way you would use a block device. Amazon EBS volumes are placed in a specific Availability Zone, where they are automatically replicated to protect you from the failure of a single component.  

EBS Volume Types 
SDD
- GENERAL PUROPOUSE SSD 
(GP2) Ratio of 3 IOPS per GB with up to 10,000 IOPS and ability to burst up to 3000 IOPS for extend periods of time for volumes at 3334 GiB and above.
- PROVISIONED IOPS SSD (IO1) 
Designed for I/O intensive applications such as large relational or NoSQL databases. Use if you need more than 10,000 IOPS. 
MAGNETIC
- Throughput Optimized HDD (ST1) - big data, data warehouses, log processing, CANNOT be a boot volume
- Cold HDD (SC1) - file server, CANNOT be a boot
- Magnetic (Standard) LEGACY - lowest cost per gigabyte of all EBS volumes types that is bootable. magnetic volumes are ideal for workloads where data is accessed infrequently, an applications where the lowest storage cost is important

*All notes made above based mainly on Cloud Guru Course - [AWS Certified Developer](https://acloud.guru/learn/aws-certified-developer-associate-june-2018)*