---
layout: post
title: AWS Lab - Route 53 & AWS CLI - Draft
---

LAB notes covering Route 53, CLI and Elastic Block Store

*[AWS Docs - Route 53](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/Route53/latest/DeveloperGuide/Welcome.html)*

### Notes

Route 53 is Amazon's DNS service. Allows you to map your domain names to:
- EC2 Instances, 
- Load Balancers, 
- S3 Buckets

Route 53 essentially allows you to buy domain name and we will be able to connect this domain to 3 different backend.

### Route 53 LAB

1. Create EC2 instance
2. Create Load balancer
3. Use Route 53 to set up traffic: (naked) domain points to LB -> EC2

### AWS CLI Lab

1. Configure *aws configure*
2. Create bucket *aws s3 mb s3://michalgebarowski-mg*
3. List buckets *aws s3 ls*
4. Copy test.txt to bucket *aws s3 cp test.txt s3://michalgebarowski-mg*
5. Browse buckets *aws s3 ls s3://michalgebarowski-mg*

*[CLI docs](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/index.html)*

### CLI Essentials

- **Least Privilege* - always give your users the minimum amount of access required. Developer might not need admin access. 
- **Create Groups** - assign your users to groups. Your users will automatically inherit the permissions of the group. The groups permissions are assigned using policy documents.
- **Secret Access Key** - you will see this only once. If you do not save it, you can delete the Key Pair and regenerate it. You will need to run AWS configure again. 
- **Do not use just one access key** - do not create just one access key and share that with all yours developers. If someone leaves the company on bad terms, then you will need to delete the key and create a now one and every developer would then need to update their keys. Instead create one key pair per developer
- **You can use the CLI on your PC** - you can install the CLI on your Mac, Linux or Windows and use s3 to store all files up in the cloud. 

**There are scripts which scan GitHub looking for keys**

#### EBS LAB

- **Volumes that are created from encrypted snapshots are automatically encrypted, and volumes that are created from unencrypted snapshots are automatically unencrypted. If no snapshot is selected, you can choose to encrypt the volume.**
- always create EBS in the same location as EC2 instance

#### Get the operating system to see (encrypted) volume created in AWS console

1. show existing volumes - *lsblk*
2. check if volume has already a file system - *file -s /dev/xvvf* -> if result is data then we need to create a file system
3. put the file system on created volume - *mkfs -t ext4 /dev/xvdf*
4. check if file system has been created - point 2
5. mount created volume -> 
```
cd /
mkdir filesystem
mount /dev/xvdf /filesystem
```
6. umount created volume 
```
cd /
umount -d /dev/xvdf 
```

------------
*Notes based mainly on Cloud Guru Course - [AWS Certified Developer](https://acloud.guru/learn/aws-certified-developer-associate-june-2018) and [AWS Whitepapers](https://aws.amazon.com/whitepapers/
).*
