---
layout: post
title: Lambda | Amazon Web Services Notes 
---

AWS Lambda is a serverless compute service that runs your code in response to events and automatically manages the underlying compute resources for you. You can use AWS Lambda to extend other AWS services with custom logic, or create your own back-end services that operate at AWS scale, performance, and security.

You do not have to care about following parts:
- Data Centers, 
- hardware, 
- Assembly Code/Protocols, 
- High Level Languages, 
- Operating Systems, 
- Application Layer/AWS APIs

AWS Lambda & amazon do it for you. 

**AWS Lambda** is a compute service where you can upload your code and create a Lambda function. AWS Lambda takes care of provisioning and managing the servers that you use to run the code. Yup don't have to worry about operating system, patching, scaling, etc. You can use Lambda in the following ways. 

- As an event-driven compute service where AWS Lambda runs your code in response to events. These events could be changes to data in an Amazon S3 bucket or Amazon DynamoDB table. 

- As a compute service to run your code in response to HTTP requests using Amazon API Gateway or API calls made using AWS SDKs. 


### What languages?

- Node.js
- Java
- python
- C#
- Go

### How is Lambda Priced?

- numbers of requests - first 1 million requests are free. 
- duration - is calculated from the time your code begins executing until it returns or otherwise terminates, rounded up to the nearest 100ms. The price depends on the amount of memory you allocate to your function. You are charged 0.00001667 for every GB-second used. 

### Why is Lambda Cool?

- no servers! (no admins: network, sys...)
- continuous scaling, 
- super, super, super cheep, 

### Amazon Echo

When you use Alexa it use Lambda in the background

**Exam tips** 
- Lambda scales out (not up) automatically - you can have millions lambda requests working in parallel but if you run out of memory you need to update it on lambda by yourself 
- Lambda functions are independent, 1 event = 1 function 
- Lambda is serverless
- know what services are serverless
- Lambda functions can trigger other lambda functions, 1 event can = x functions if functions trigger other functions. 

- Architectures can get extremely complicated, AWS X-ray allows you to debug what is happening.
- lambda can do things globally, you can use it to back up S3 buckets to other S3 buckets etc. 
- know your triggers

### Version control with Lambda

- Can have multiple version of lambda functions, 
- latest version will use $latest
- qualified version will use $latest, unqualified will not have it, 
- version are immutable, 
- can split traffic using aliases to different versions
	- cannot split traffic with $latest, instead create an alias to latest.

------------
*Notes based mainly on Cloud Guru Course - [AWS Certified Developer](https://acloud.guru/learn/aws-certified-developer-associate-june-2018) and [AWS Whitepapers](https://aws.amazon.com/whitepapers/)*