---
layout: post
title: AWS 101 - ELASTIC LOAD BALANCERS
---

Elastic Load Balancing automatically distributes incoming application traffic across multiple targets, such as Amazon EC2 instances, containers, and IP addresses. It can handle the varying load of your application traffic in a single Availability Zone or across multiple Availability Zones. Elastic Load Balancing offers three types of load balancers that all feature the high availability, automatic scaling, and robust security necessary to make your applications fault tolerant.

*[Amazon Overview - Elastic Load Balancing](https://aws.amazon.com/elasticloadbalancing/)*

### Notes

#### Types of Load Balancers

Application Load Balancer -> it operates on **OSI Layer 7** and is application-aware. Are best suited for load balancing of HTTP and HTTPS traffic. It is intelligent, and you can create advanced request routing, sending specified requests to specific web servers. 

Network Load Balancer -> it operates at **OSI Layer 4**, super fast performance,super fast speed. NLBs are best suited for load balancing of TCP traffic where extreme performance is required. If latency is an issue this is a solution. NLB are the most expensive load balancer is AWS. NLBs are capable of handling millions of requests per second, while maintaining ultra-low latencies.
#extremeperformance

Classic Load Balancer -> are the legacy ELB. Can CLB can load HTTP/HTTPS balance and use Layer 7-specific features, such as X-Forwarded and sticky sessions. You can also use strict Layer 4 load balancing for applications that rely purely on the TCP protocol. 
#legacy

#### Classic Load Balancer Errors

**504 Error**
If application stops responding the ELB responds with a 504 error. **Basically is not load balancer itself having that issue, it is something below the load balancer.** 504 Error means the gateway has timed out. this means that the application not responding within the idle timeout period. 
Troubleshooting: This could be either at the Web Server layer or at the Database Layer. Identify where the application is failing, and scale it up or out where possible.

**X-Forwarded-For Header**

Case:
User sends a request to our webserver (from IP 124.12.3.321) -> it goes to Load balancer with private address (10.0.1.9) -> LB distributes it to EC2 instances -> EC2 sees only private address of LB. 

Problem:
The problem is you probably want to know when in the world your user is, get IPv4 address of your end user.

Solution:
In order to get public IP address you need to go and look for X-Forwarded-For Header


------------
*Notes based mainly on Cloud Guru Course - [AWS Certified Developer](https://acloud.guru/learn/aws-certified-developer-associate-june-2018) and [AWS Whitepapers](https://aws.amazon.com/whitepapers/
).*
