---
layout: post
title: Relational Database Service | Amazon Web Services Notes 
---
Amazon Relational Database Service (Amazon RDS) makes it easy to set up, operate, and scale a relational database in the cloud. It provides cost-efficient and resizable capacity while automating time-consuming administration tasks such as hardware provisioning, database setup, patching and backups. It frees you to focus on your applications so you can give them the fast performance, high availability, security and compatibility they need.

### Notes
#### Relational Database Types which can be provisioned within AWS:

- Sql Server, 
- Oracle, 
- MySql, 
- PostgreSql, 
- Amazon Aurora (full compatible with MySql), 
- Maria DB

#### What is data Warehousing?

Used for business intelligence. Tools like Cognos, Jaspersoft, SQL Server Reporting Services, Oracle Hypervison, SAP NetWeaver. 
Used to pull in very large and complex data sets. Usually used by management to do queries on data(such as current performance vs targets, etc.) 

#### OLTP(Simple) vs OLAP(Complex)

Online Transaction Processing(OLTP) differs from (OLAP) Online Analytics Processing in terms of the types of queries you will run. 

*OLTP Example:*
Online store - Order number 1232411 
Pulls up a row of data such as Name, Date, Address to Delivery to, Delivery Status etc. Simple transaction like INSERT this data INTO this table. RELATIONAL DB is OLTP

*OLAP Example:*
Net Profit for EMEA and Pacific for the Digital Radio Product. Pulls in large numbers of records.
SUM of Radios Sold in EMEA
SUM of Radios Sold in Pacific
Unit Costs of Radio in each region
Sales price - unit costs

RedShift - OLAP (Business intelligence and big data)
Data Warehousing databases use different type of architecture both from a database perspective and infrastructure layer. 

#### What is Elastic Cache?

ElasticCache is a web service that makes it easy to deploy, operate, and scale an in-memory cache in the cloud. The service improves the performance of web applications by allowing you to retrieve information from fast, managed, in-memory caches, instead of relying entirely on slower disk-based databases. 

ElasticCache supports two open-source in-memory caching engines:
- memcached,
- redis.

*Exam tip - architecture change which makes DB run faster - ElasticCache*
Elastic cache is a great way of caching frequently accessed information and so that when users wants to access them they do not need to do pull them from DB.

### Multi-AZ & Read Replicas

#### Automated Backups

There are two different types of Backups of AWS: Automated Backups and Database Snapshot.
Automated Backups allow you to recover your database to any point in time within a retention period. the retention period can be between one and 35 days. Automated Backups will take a full daily snapshot and will also store transaction logs throughout the day. When you do a recovery, AWS first choose the most recent daily backup, and then apply transaction logs relevant to that day. this Allows you to do a point in time recovery down to a second, within the retention period. 

Automated backups are enabled by default. The backup data is stored in S3 and you get free storage space equal to the size of your database. So if you have an RDS instance of 10 GB you will get 10 GB worth of storage. 

IF RDS INSTANCE IS DELETED BACKUP WILL BE DELETED

#### Snapshots

DB snapshots are done manually. They are stored even after you delete the original RDS instance, unlike automated backups. 

Whenever you restore either an Automatic Backup or a manual Snapshot, the restored version of the database will be a new RDS instance with a new DNS endpoint 

#### Encryption

Exam tip - At the present time, encrypting existing DB instance is not supported. To use Amazon RDS encryption for an existing database you must first create a snapshot, make a copy of that snapshot and encrypt the copy.

#### What is Multi-AZ?

This is disaster recovery only. If the primary DB is lost, amazon detects that and will update DNS address to point to IP address of Multi-AZ copy.
You never deal with IP addresses when using RDS. Always DNS endpoint is used. 

Multi-AZ allows you to have an exact copy of your production database in another Availability Zone. AWS handles the replication for you, so when your production database is written to, this write will automatically be synchronized to the stand by database. 

In the event of planned database maintenance, DB Instance failure, or Availability Zone failure, Amazon RDS will automatically fail-over to the standby so the database operations can resume quickly without administrative intervention. 
 
*Exam tip* - Multi-AZ is for Disaster Recovery only. It is not primarily used for improving performance. For performance improvement, you need Read Replicas. 

Multi-AZ Databases are available for:

- SQL Server, 
- Oracle, 
- MySql Server, 
- PostgreSql,
- MariaDB,
- AWS Aurora - by default is spread across multi av. zones.

#### What is Read replica?

Assumption: We have one Load balancer and 3 EC2 instances which perform read/write operation from our primary DB.
If we create read replicas these writes will be pushed to other copies of database. 
Assumption 2: 90% of our website is read traffic, e.g. popular word press blog. 
Instead of reading only from production DB we can scale instances out to read from Read-Replicas. It is also possible to have read replicas of read replicas but it cause some latency. 

Read replicas allows you to have a read-only copy of your production database. This is achieved by using Asynchronous replication from the primary RDS instance to the read replica. You use read replicas primarily for very read-heavy database workloads. 

Read replica Databases are available for:

- MySql Server, 
- PostgreSql,
- MariaDB,
- AWS Aurora

**Exam tips** 
- RR are used for scaling **not** for Disaster Recovery!
- must have automatic backups turned on in order to deploy a read replica. 
- you can have up to 5 read copies of any database
- you can have replicas of read replicas( but watch out for latency)
- Each read replica will have its own DNS end point. 
- you can have read replicas that have Multi-AZ
- you can create read replicas of Multi AZ source databases
- read replicas can be promoted to be their own databases. This breaks the replication.
- you can have a replica in a second region

### RDS Lab - Connecting EC2 instance to RDS instance MySql DB
EC2 instance is in different security group than RDS

1. Create RDS instance
2. Use rds.sh during creating EC2 instance to communicate with DB.
3. Edit connect.php file on drive
4. Connect to EC2 IP/connect.php in browser

[Scripts](https://github.com/vmaaik/aws-demo/tree/master/scripts)

Exam tip - Potential problem:

When we created RDS instance we created a security groups inside RDS instance. This is separate security group than our EC2 instance is in. Now we have two different pieces of AWS cloud and two different security groups and they are not able to talk to each other. The solution is to allow the communication from one security group to another. 

In order to do that edit inbound rules on RDS adding new rule allowing MySql/Aurora connection from any instance in security group where our EC2 is. In this case myDMZ.
Open port 3306.  

------------
*Notes based mainly on Cloud Guru Course - [AWS Certified Developer](https://acloud.guru/learn/aws-certified-developer-associate-june-2018) and [AWS Whitepapers](https://aws.amazon.com/whitepapers/)*
